ESC GA Blog (#12812)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/esc-ga-announcement/index.md

---

> title: "Announcing the General Availability of Pulumi ESC - Welcome to the new era of Secrets Management"

Reviewer: I feel like this could probably be tightened even more - but one specific tactical suggestion:

```suggestion
title: "Announcing the General Availability of Pulumi ESC - Welcome to a New Era of Secrets Management"
```

allow_long_title: true
date: 2024-09-18T00:00:00-03:00
draft: false

> meta_desc: "Pulumi ESC is the centralized secrets and configuration management platform that allwo you to easily access, share, and manage securely on any cloud, using your favorite programming languages."

Reviewer: I had suggested to @thtmnisamnstr some tweaks to this for the messaging - I don't want to do something different here than elsewhere - but I do think we shoudl consistenly do something stronger than this.

My suggestions was this - but he may have a more polished replacement:

```
Easily manage and tame secrets and configuration complexity across all of your cloud infrastructure and application environments.
```

Author: Updating this in the next commit

meta_image: "meta.png"
authors:
  - luke-hoban
  - arun-loganathan
tags:
  - esc
  - secrets
---

> At Pulumi, we've been at the forefront of revolutionizing infrastructure management and DevOps processes. We've built the industry's most comprehensive [secrets management solution for IaC](/docs/iac/concepts/secrets/), securing production cloud credentials and secrets for countless organizations. Now, we're taking that expertise and applying it to the broader challenges of secrets management—especially for developers working at scale—with an open ecosystem approach. Pulumi Environments, Secrets, and Configuration ([Pulumi ESC](/product/secrets-management/)), launched in [preview](/blog/environments-secrets-configurations-management/) in October 2023, is now generally available. This next-generation secrets management and orchestration service is built with a robust software engineering approach, designed to bring security and simplicity to even the most complex secrets management needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At Pulumi, we've been at the forefront of revolutionizing infrastructure management and DevOps processes. We've built the industry's most comprehensive [secrets management solution for IaC](/docs/iac/concepts/secrets/), securing production cloud credentials and secrets for countless organizations. Now, we're taking that expertise and applying it to the broader challenges of managing secrets at scale with an open ecosystem approach. 

Pulumi Environments, Secrets, and Configuration ([Pulumi ESC](/product/secrets-management/)), launched in [preview](/blog/environments-secrets-configurations-management/) in October 2023, is now generally available.

This next-generation secrets management and orchestration service is built with a robust software engineering approach, designed to bring security and simplicity to even the most complex secrets management needs.
```

<!--more-->

## Challenges in Secrets management

> In today's cloud-native world, secrets are the keys to the kingdom, but managing them effectively is a growing challenge. Modern applications rely on a complex web of secrets, but traditional approaches to secrets management are struggling to keep pace. This complexity creates major challenges for security and engineering teams:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In today's cloud-native world, secrets are the keys to the cloud estate, but managing them effectively is a growing challenge. Modern applications rely on a complex web of secrets, but traditional approaches to secrets management are struggling to keep pace. This complexity creates major challenges for security and engineering teams:
```

- **Secrets Sprawl**:  Secrets scattered across numerous systems and platforms make it nearly impossible to track their usage, enforce consistent security policies, and prevent unauthorized access, significantly increasing the likelihood of a breach.
- **Long-Lived Credentials**: Storing long-lived credentials, especially locally, creates a significant security liability. If these credentials are compromised, they can grant attackers prolonged access to sensitive systems.
- **The Trade-off Between Speed and Security**: Many security measures designed to safeguard secrets can inadvertently impede development velocity. Complex storage and retrieval processes create unnecessary friction, leading to frustration and delays.

> - **Insecure .env File Sharing**: Developers often share .env files through insecure channels (like Slack), creating blind spots for security teams and increasing the risk of data leaks.

Reviewer: This is an instance of the more general "copy/paste" problem.  Perhaps we can generalize at least in the description?
```suggestion
- **Insecure .env File Sharing**: Developers often copy/paste secrets across many different files, including formats like `.env` files stored locally on their machine or shared through insecure channels (like Slack), creating blind spots for security teams and increasing the risk of data leaks.
```

- **Unify Your Secrets**: Say goodbye to secrets scattered across systems. Pulumi ESC lets you pull and synchronize secrets from any source—[HashiCorp Vault](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-secrets/vault-secrets/), [AWS Secrets Manager](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-secrets/aws-secrets/), [Azure Key Vault](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-secrets/azure-secrets/), [1Password](/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-secrets/1password-secrets/), and more—and consume them securely from anywhere.
- **Streamline Access and Control**: Access secrets seamlessly via [CLI](/docs/esc/cli/), [API](/docs/pulumi-cloud/reference/cloud-rest-api/#environments), [Kubernetes operator](https://external-secrets.io/latest/provider/pulumi/), the intuitive Pulumi Cloud UI, or directly within your code using our TypeScript, Python, and Go [SDKs](/docs/esc/development/languages-sdks/). Robust [RBAC](/docs/esc/environments/access-control/) ensures the right people have the right access at all times.
- **Eliminate .env File Risks**: Stop sharing secrets through insecure channels. Pulumi ESC provides a secure and centralized way to manage and access secrets, eliminating the need for risky .env files.

> 

Reviewer: Is there a visual or screenshot we can include here?  Perhaps the image of all the integrations from the product page?

#### Boost Developer Velocity and Security:
- **Empower Developers, Not Slow Them Down**: Pulumi ESC is designed for developer convenience without compromising security. Access secrets programmatically, integrate with your existing workflows, and leverage flexible authoring options: Pulumi Cloud Editor, VS Code Plugin, SDKs, the Pulumi Service Provider, and our REST API - the choice is yours!

> - **Gain Complete Visibility and Control**: Track all secret access and changes with detailed audit logs. Understand the downstream impact of changes and ensure your secrets are used securely and consistently across your organization.

Reviewer: Perhaps "Secrets as Code" should be a third bullet here - speaking to flexibly composing environments, avoid copy/paste, enabling rich software engineering, and providing rich experience for developers?

> 

Reviewer: Is there a visual or screenshot we can include?  Perhaps a snippet of an actual ESC Environment code?  And/or of the K/V editor?

#### Built for the Modern Cloud, Open by Design:
- **Use It Your Way**: Pulumi ESC integrates seamlessly with other Pulumi products and features such as Pulumi IaC and Pulumi Deployments for a unified infrastructure management experience. But its flexibility extends to any platform or toolset, including HashiCorp Terraform.
- **Embrace the Open Ecosystem**: We believe in freedom of choice. That's why Pulumi ESC is built on an open-source foundation (Apache 2.0 license) and designed to retrieve and synchronize secrets with various platforms seamlessly. We empower our customers to choose the best tools for their needs and supercharge their workflows with Pulumi ESC.

> <span style="color:red">**Add Engin Demo video**</span>

Reviewer: Might move video up higher - and leave another visual here?

## Customer Stories

> Since launch, we’ve seen an exponential increase in our customers using Pulumi ESC. Our users have reduced the duplication of their configuration and secrets by over <b>90%</b> and made Pulumi ESC a core part of running and managing their mission-critical infrastructure and applications. 

Reviewer: The doc had a nice visual of growth in usage - was it intentional to remove that?
